src/earn/incentives.md, before:

---
title: Project Artemis
---

![Project Artemis](./project-artemis.jpeg)

During the Cudos Public 'Somniorum' Testnet we will be running our incentive programme Project Artemis. We're inviting the Cudos community to help contribute towards the testing to help move the network closer to mainnet. To help maximise participation in our public testnet and to get the best feedback we're offering token rewards to users who join us and fulfil some key testing tasks.

During Project Artemis participants are able to earn CUDOS by completing tasks. Once our mainnet is deployed participants of Project Artemis will have native CUDOS airdropped to their wallets as reward for their contributions.

Project Artemis is broken down into 4 key phases which will run sequentially, find more details of each below:

## Testnet Phases

### Phase 1 - Apollo

Starter setup tasks for Cudos Network onboarding for Validators and users, focussing on account creation, hardware provisioning, node syncing and the CUDOS faucet.

#### Validator Tasks

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#1`|Setup a Cudos Validator|[Docs](/build/validator.html)|10|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#2`|Add a Sentry Node to your Cudos Validator for additional security|[Docs](/build/validator.html#run-a-sentry-node)|5|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#3`|Add Prometheus monitoring to the Validator Node|[Docs](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started/)|-|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#4`|Create a Grafana dashboard to show `ARTEMIS-APOLLO#3` Prometheus data/sending Validator data monthly to Cudo Network|[Docs](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/)|100|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#6`|Write a unique blog post setting up a Validator Node (in any language of your choice)|n/a|30|

#### Developer Tasks

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#5`|Setup a Cudos Wallet and redeem Somniorum CUDOS from the Faucet|[Docs](/build/account-setup.html)|10|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#7`|Join our community [Telegram](https://t.me/cudostelegram), [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/NUmUXEmvBn), and follow CUDOS on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CUDOS_)|n/a|1|

### Phase 2 - Buzz (Launching Soon)

Test all aspects of Validation, including staking, delegated staking, rewards. Additionally exploring CosmWasm smart contracts including: contract interaction, contract deployment, contract interfaces. Testing of our Gravity bridge implementation with Rinkeby Ethereum.

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-BUZZ#1`| 🌎 | 🚀 | 🌝 |

### Phase 3 - Armstrong (Launching Soon)

Adversarial stress tests bringing a coordinated strike to bring as much diversity in transaction activity as possible to the Cudos Network. Validators will run network load and performing maintenance tasks.

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-ARMSTRONG#1`| 🌎 | 🚀 | 🌝 |

### Phase 4 - Collins (Launching Soon)

Migration testing to performa a dry-run of our genesis and token migration plan for the new native Cudos Network.

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-COLLINS#1`| 🌎 | 🚀 | 🌝 |

## How to Participate

Take a look at the [active tasks](#phase-1-apollo) for the current phase and dive into the Somniorum Testnet.

Upon completion of each task please submit your evidence to [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdsGDUvtF70O1LLMWsKhNTVmiW_HzodGDFRgW-6YLYloA3hdg/viewform?usp=sf_link). Tasks will be monitored and validated on-chain for completion.

## CUDOS Airdrop

CUDOS tokens will be distributed to the top Project Artemis participants when the Cudos Network mainnet is deployed, the same wallet addresses used for testnet **must** be retained to ensure access to your airdrop account.

Participation in Project Artemis is open to everyone, but only the top 300 Developer addresses, and 100 Validator addresses will be eligible for airdrops. Details of which users have contributed the most and qualified for CUDOS rewards will be revealed shortly after each phase concludes.

We will be using blockchain snapshots to validate the state of tasks on-chain, and manual verification for any 'off-chain' tasks. We reserve the right to decide all reward eligibility.

Commit message:

Artemis participation form links added

src/earn/incentives.md, after:

---
title: Project Artemis
---

![Project Artemis](./project-artemis.jpeg)

During the Cudos Public 'Somniorum' Testnet we will be running our incentive programme Project Artemis. We're inviting the Cudos community to help contribute towards the testing to help move the network closer to mainnet. To help maximise participation in our public testnet and to get the best feedback we're offering token rewards to users who join us and fulfil some key testing tasks.

During Project Artemis participants are able to earn CUDOS by completing tasks. Once our mainnet is deployed participants of Project Artemis will have native CUDOS airdropped to their wallets as reward for their contributions.

Project Artemis is broken down into 4 key phases which will run sequentially, find more details of each below:

## Testnet Phases

### Phase 1 - Apollo

Starter setup tasks for Cudos Network onboarding for Validators and users, focussing on account creation, hardware provisioning, node syncing and the CUDOS faucet.

#### Validator Tasks

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#1`|Setup a Cudos Validator|[Docs](/build/validator.html)|10|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#2`|Add a Sentry Node to your Cudos Validator for additional security|[Docs](/build/validator.html#run-a-sentry-node)|5|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#3`|Add Prometheus monitoring to the Validator Node|[Docs](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started/)|-|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#4`|Create a Grafana dashboard to show `ARTEMIS-APOLLO#3` Prometheus data/sending Validator data monthly to Cudo Network|[Docs](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/)|100|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#6`|Write a unique blog post setting up a Validator Node (in any language of your choice)|n/a|30|

#### Developer Tasks

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#5`|Setup a Cudos Wallet and redeem Somniorum CUDOS from the Faucet|[Docs](/build/account-setup.html)|10|
|`ARTEMIS-APOLLO#7`|Join our community [Telegram](https://t.me/cudostelegram), [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/NUmUXEmvBn), and follow CUDOS on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CUDOS_)|n/a|1|

### Phase 2 - Buzz (Launching Soon)

Test all aspects of Validation, including staking, delegated staking, rewards. Additionally exploring CosmWasm smart contracts including: contract interaction, contract deployment, contract interfaces. Testing of our Gravity bridge implementation with Rinkeby Ethereum.

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-BUZZ#1`| 🌎 | 🚀 | 🌝 |

### Phase 3 - Armstrong (Launching Soon)

Adversarial stress tests bringing a coordinated strike to bring as much diversity in transaction activity as possible to the Cudos Network. Validators will run network load and performing maintenance tasks.

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**$ Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-ARMSTRONG#1`| 🌎 | 🚀 | 🌝 |

### Phase 4 - Collins (Launching Soon)

Migration testing to performa a dry-run of our genesis and token migration plan for the new native Cudos Network.

|**Task ID**|**Description**|**Resources**|**Reward**|
| - | - | - | - |
|`ARTEMIS-COLLINS#1`| 🌎 | 🚀 | 🌝 |

## How to Participate

If you're a Developer wanting to build on Cudos please signup with [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfoEV-SyCnWooqiTw1_7YjNP1eINGotMvwavLNh_gFzUFBOzg/viewform)

If you're a Validator wanting to get setup with a Cudos Node, please apply via [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeRLDxZACtgRd2Q7FW3JRm-AXLg22lTGjuVA28FoLhoeYcDKQ/viewform)

Once you're signed up and approved as a Developer or Validator, take a look at the [active tasks](#phase-1-apollo) for the current phase and dive into the Somniorum Testnet.

Upon completion of each task please submit your evidence to [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdsGDUvtF70O1LLMWsKhNTVmiW_HzodGDFRgW-6YLYloA3hdg/viewform?usp=sf_link). Tasks will be monitored and validated on-chain for completion.

## CUDOS Airdrop

CUDOS tokens will be distributed to the top Project Artemis participants when the Cudos Network mainnet is deployed, the same wallet addresses used for testnet **must** be retained to ensure access to your airdrop account.

Participation in Project Artemis is open to everyone, but only the top 300 Developer addresses, and 100 Validator addresses will be eligible for airdrops. Details of which users have contributed the most and qualified for CUDOS rewards will be revealed shortly after each phase concludes.

We will be using blockchain snapshots to validate the state of tasks on-chain, and manual verification for any 'off-chain' tasks. We reserve the right to decide all reward eligibility.
